docs(badge): add initial guides and code (#263)
siemens/ix-docs: docs/components/badge/guide.md

---
doc-type: 'tab-item'
description: 'Usage guide for the badge component'
---
# Badge - Usage

> Badges are non-interactive visual aids for status, counters and notification cues. We recommend badges when users need a compact signal next to another element or a lightweight standalone status cue.

Reviewer: I think we need to at least add the word "pill" somewhere as most people associate the word badge with the gamification version, i.e. a badge sticker. Also many will search for pill and if there is no results, it will make it harder to find what they want.

Author: Resolved by https://github.com/siemens/ix-docs/pull/263/changes/BASE..eb10a6ad32af57602b5c601aa2930ce514686d4a#r3711194885

![Badge anatomy](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Documentation-illustrations?node-id=8141-4052&t=v625YpvIn3UzoFuJ-4)

1. Badge of type `label` as standalone
2. Badge of type `counter`
3. Badge of type `dot`
4. Badge of type `status icon`
5. Anchor element

Badges work **standalone** or **attached** to an anchor that represents the related information. As a general rule, we use badges for dynamic status or notification information and [chips](../chip) when users need to interact with the item.

## Types

Badge types define how the indicator appears:

> - **Counter (default):** Use for notifications that need attention, with integers up to two digits ( for larger values).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Counter (default):** Use for notifications that need attention, with integers up to two digits (for larger values).
```

- **Label:** Use for a readable status, e.g. "Online" or "Offline" in a list.

> - **Dot:** Use when only the presence of new information matters, e.g. for a compact notification that needs attention without a count.

Reviewer: Im struggling to visualize this and it's not on the preview. I would like to see an example  - even though small.

Author: Do you mean just an image of the dot, or an example where the dot is used? (in the badge anatomy, #3 is the dot)

Reviewer: Im sorry - you are right. Resolved

- **Status icon:** Use for showing statuses or notifications that are recognizable by icon alone.

## Variants

> Semantic color variants communicate meaning, not decoration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semantic color variants communicate clear meanings:
```

![Badge variants](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Documentation-illustrations?node-id=8141-4066&t=v625YpvIn3UzoFuJ-4)

- **Primary:** Highlight new features or exploratory information.
- **Alarm:** Show negative values, removals or high-urgency counts, e.g. critical equipment faults or imminent system failures.
- **Critical:** Emphasize severe conditions that require strong attention.
- **Warning:** Call attention to information that requires caution, e.g. pending actions.
- **Info:** Draw attention to new or updated information or informative numeric data.
- **Success:** Show positive values or additions, e.g. growth metrics.
- **Neutral:** Use for general-purpose information that doesn’t carry semantic meaning.
- **Custom:** Set an explicit background and badge color when you need a product-specific palette.

We recommend matching icons on label badges to the meaning of the chosen color. Prefer outlined styles when you need lower visual emphasis on busy surfaces.

:::info

> Use standalone label badges to replace deprecated [pills](../pill) usages, e.g. compact statuses or categories.

Reviewer: Great - exactly what was needed. Ignore comment 1 above.

- **Placement:** Use inline (standalone) to show an entity’s status in a list. With an anchor, we typically use `top after` for notifications that need attention and `bottom after` for status on individual elements, e.g. user presence.
- **Label:** We usually show the full status name and use max-width to control lengthy labels. Keep labels short to avoid truncation.
- **Outline:** Intended for lower visual emphasis on standalone badges. On status icons, outline selects the outline glyph.
- **Border:** Add a high-contrast border on filled badges when the surface behind them is busy. Not applicable to outline badges.
- **Offset:** Keep the indicator close to the anchor without covering it fully and without leaving the parent's visual bounding box, e.g. round elements like avatars need larger negative offsets.
- **Pulse animation:** Use only for immediate, urgent attention. It loops until explicitly disabled. Note that `prefers-reduced-motion` settings might override this.
- **Custom colors:** With the custom variant, set background and badge color together so contrast stays readable.

> - **Tooltip text**: For standalone badges, provide a specific text to be displayed as the tooltip or set the attribute without a specific value to display the badge's text content.

Reviewer: Is it useful to link to the tooltip section in UXW?

Author: Good idea, I'll leave the comment open for you to check the writing on the new content.

Reviewer: looks good - thanks

## Behavior in context

![Badge behavior](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Documentation-illustrations?node-id=8173-214&t=OTo6nDmRwFCU9cVf-4)

- **Overflow:**
  - Label badges: If a max-width is applied, label is truncated.
  - Counter badges: If more than 2 digits are entered, label shows "99+".

> - **Container and overlapping:** An attached badge overlaps the anchor at its edge without extending the parent’s bounding box. This placement leaves the anchor recognizable and its critical content, e.g. the icon that identifies a notification button, visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Container and overlapping:** An attached badge overlaps the anchor at its edge without extending the parent’s bounding box. This placement leaves the anchor recognizable and its critical content visible, e.g. the icon that identifies a notification button.
```

- **Screen readers:** Labels of standalone badges are read by screen readers. Attached badges are read as part of their anchor’s accessible name.

## States

Badges are read-only. They don't have hover, active or disabled states, but standalone badges support text selection.

## Dos and Don’ts

<div class="dos-and-donts">
  <div class="dos">
    <ul aria-label="Recommended practices">
      <li>Do provide an accessible name for dot and status icon badges by using `aria-label` on the anchor when attached, or on the badge when standalone</li>
      <li>Do prefer dot or status icon badges over long labels in compact layouts</li>
      <li>Do keep badges synchronized with the underlying notification state, e.g. update or remove them when users read notifications</li>
      <li>Do include the badge meaning in the accessible name of its anchor</li>

>       <li>Do announce meaningful dynamic updates without announcing every routine count change</li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <li>Do announce meaningful dynamic updates while considering cognitive load on the user</li>
```

Not sure this is clear. Maybe this is ok?

---
doc-type: 'tab-item'
description: 'Usage guide for the badge component'
---
# Badge - Usage

Badges are non-interactive visual aids for status, counters and notification cues. We recommend badges when users need a compact signal next to another element or a lightweight standalone status cue. Interaction always belongs to the anchor, not to the badge.

![Badge anatomy](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Documentation-illustrations?node-id=8141-4052&t=v625YpvIn3UzoFuJ-4)

1. Badge of type `label` as standalone
2. Badge of type `counter`
3. Badge of type `dot`
4. Badge of type `status icon`
5. Anchor element

Badges work **standalone** or **attached** to an anchor. As a general rule, we use badges for dynamic status or notification information and [chips](../chip) when users need to interact with the item.

## Variants

Badge types define how the indicator appears:

> - **Counter:** Default type. Use for notifications that need attention, with integers up to two digits (`99+` for larger values). Short words are an exception, e.g. `new`.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Counter:** Default type. Use for notifications that need attention, with integers up to two digits ("99+" for larger values). Short words are an exception, e.g. "new".
```
We haven't used code format for example texts yet (see e.g. message modal) - please check if I used the right quotation marks though 😅

> - **Label:** Use for status, e.g. Online or Offline in a list. Labels can include an icon that matches the semantic meaning of the color.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Label:** Use for a readable status, e.g. "Online" or "Offline" in a list.
```
Icon should be added to the options list

- **Dot:** Use for a compact notification that needs attention without a count.

> - **Status icon:** Use for notifications that need attention or to show a status with a semantic glyph.

Author: I would not add the types to the variants section but rather have them above, like we did with the cards https://ix.siemens.io/docs/components/card/guide

Reviewer 2: for sure. let's move line 21 - 26 at the end of the anatomy

> - **Status icon:** Use for notifications that need attention or to show a status with a semantic glyph.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Status icon:** Use for notifications that need attention or showing statuses that are recognizable by icon alone.
```

Semantic color variants communicate meaning, not decoration:

![Badge variants](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Documentation-illustrations?node-id=8141-4066&t=v625YpvIn3UzoFuJ-4)

> - **Primary:** Highlight new features, discoveries or exploratory information.

Author: what's a discovery?

Reviewer 2: remove it, could be some insights or "learn more"

- **Alarm:** Show negative values, removals or high-urgency counts.
- **Critical:** Emphasize severe conditions that require strong attention.
- **Warning:** Call attention to information that requires caution, e.g. pending actions.
- **Info:** Draw attention to new or updated information or informative numeric data.
- **Success:** Show positive values or additions, e.g. growth metrics.
- **Neutral:** Use for general-purpose information that doesn’t carry semantic meaning.
- **Custom:** Set an explicit background and badge color when you need a product-specific palette.

We recommend matching icons on label badges to the meaning of the chosen color. Prefer outlined styles when you need lower visual emphasis on busy surfaces.

:::info

> Badges with type `label` replace the deprecated [pill](../pill). Use a standalone label badge for existing pill use cases, e.g. compact statuses or categories. Attach it to an anchor only when the label supplements that specific element.

Author: ```suggestion
Use standalone label badges to replace deprecated [pills](../pill) usages, e.g. compact statuses or categories.
```
1. I would not use the code style for the label, would "Label badges" be enough?
2. I also tried to shorten the second sentence.
3. I would remove the last sentence, since it doesn't correspond to the deprecation/replacement topic

:::

## Options

> ![Badge options](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Documentation-illustrations?node-id=8161-118&t=OTo6nDmRwFCU9cVf-4)

Author: I really like these contextual examples, and also the one below <3

- **Placement:** Use inline (standalone) to show an entity’s status in a list. With an anchor, we typically use `top after` for notifications that need attention and `bottom after` for status on individual elements, e.g. user presence.

> - **Label:** Grows with content unless you set a max width via `--ix-badge-max-width`.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Label:** We usually show the full status name and use max-width to control lengthy labels.
```
trying to avoid the technical jargon and get closer to what we usually have

- **Outline:** Intended for lower visual emphasis on standalone badges. On status icons, outline selects the outline glyph.

> - **Border:** Add a high-contrast border on filled badges when the surface behind them is busy. Ignore border when outline is on.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Border:** Add a high-contrast border on filled badges (not outline) when the surface behind them is busy.
```
?

Reviewer 2: Find it difficult to work with brackets here. Maybe rephrase the second sentence?

Border: Add a high-contrast border on filled badges when the surface behind them is busy. Do not apply this to outline badges.

- **Offset:** Keep the indicator close to the anchor without covering it fully and without leaving the parent bounding box. Defaults are type-specific in the component.

> - **Pulse animation:** Use `enable-animation` only for immediate, urgent attention. Animation respects `prefers-reduced-motion`.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Pulse animation:** Use only for immediate, urgent attention. Note that it might not be visible with certain a11y browser configurations.
```
Avoid technical jargon :)

- **Custom colors:** With the custom variant, set background and badge color together so contrast stays readable.

> - **Tooltip text**: Provide a specific text to be displayed as the tooltip or set the attribute without a specific value to display the badge's text content. The tooltip works only for standalone badges.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Tooltip text**: For standalone badges, provide a specific text to be displayed as the tooltip or set the attribute without a specific value to display the badge's text content.
```
?

> ## Behavior in context

Author: this section should show how the component acts in context of others - not really give recommendations on how to use it

Reviewer 2: yes, always struggle with "behavior in context"

![Badge behavior](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Documentation-illustrations?node-id=8173-214&t=OTo6nDmRwFCU9cVf-4)

> - **Interaction:** Badges are read-only visual cues with no interaction but label text can be selected.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Interaction:** Badges are read-only visual cues with no interaction except text selection.
```
What do you think?

Reviewer 2: Badges are read-only visual cues with no interaction, but support text selection.

- **Responsiveness:** In compact layouts, we usually prefer dot or status icon badges over long labels.
- **Notification context:** Attach badges to the control that opens or represents the related information, e.g. a notification or calendar icon. Use counters when the number helps users decide what to do, dots when only the presence of new information matters and status icons when users need to recognize a state or severity.
- **Updates:** Keep badges synchronized with the underlying notification state. Update or remove the indicator when users read notifications or when the status changes, and don’t leave stale counts or statuses attached to an anchor.
- **Accessibility**
   - **Accessible naming:** When badges are attached, include their meaning in the anchor’s accessible name, e.g. “Notifications, 3 unread”. Standalone dot and status icon badges need an accessible name because they don’t contain readable text.
   - **Dynamic updates:** We recommend a polite live region when users need to hear an important badge update without moving focus. Reserve assertive announcements for critical conditions that require immediate attention, and don’t announce routine count changes.

>    - **Reading order:** Treat an attached badge and its anchor as one accessible unit. Avoid exposing the same information separately when this causes duplicate announcements.

Author: @alexkaduk please doublecheck if this is actually the case in development

Reviewer 3: let me suggest to have `Accessibility` section as this 
```
- **Accessibility**
  - **Accessible naming:**
    - **Attached `counter` / `label`:** Name the anchor for the control (e.g. “Notifications”). The component exposes the badge text on the anchor via `aria-describedby`. Do not also put that same count or label in the accessible name.
    - **Attached `dot` / `status-icon`:** Include the status in the anchor’s accessible name (e.g. “Messages, unread”), because the component does not expose a description.
    - **Standalone `dot` / `status-icon`:** Set an accessible name on the badge host (e.g. `aria-label` with `role="img"`), because there is no readable text.
  - **Dynamic updates:** …
  - **Reading order:** An attached badge and its anchor are one focusable unit: assistive technologies land on the anchor; the indicator is decorative. Badge text for `counter` / `label` is announced as the anchor’s description, not as a second control. Avoid repeating that text in the accessible name (or elsewhere) so it is not announced twice.
```

## States

Badges are read-only. They don’t have hover, active or disabled interaction states of their own. When pulse animation is enabled, it draws attention until the application disables it.

## Dos and Don’ts

<div class="dos-and-donts">
  <div class="dos">
    <ul aria-label="Recommended practices">
      <li>Do use badges for status, counters or notification cues that stay secondary to the anchor</li>
      <li>Do keep counter labels to integers with at most two digits, using 99+ when needed</li>
      <li>Do include the badge meaning in the accessible name of its anchor</li>
      <li>Do announce meaningful dynamic updates without announcing every routine count change</li>
      <li>Do keep the badge inside the parent and leave enough of the anchor visible</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
  <div class="donts">
    <ul aria-label="Practices to avoid">

>       <li>Don’t make badges interactive, use chips when users need to click or dismiss</li>

Author: This aspect was mentioned 4 times, would it make sense to reduce one or the other?

- In Usage: Interaction always belongs to the anchor, not to the badge.
- In Behavior in context: Badges are read-only visual cues with no interaction
- In States: Badges are read-only.
- and here

Reviewer 2: I'd tend to keep it in the don't section and remove/rephrase it rather from Behavior in context and States
